Adding HyperPod x DevOps Agent integration solution (#1191)
aws-samples/awsome-distributed-training: 1.architectures/5.sagemaker-hyperpod/tools/devops-agent/IMPLEMENTATION.md

| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Cluster State Change | `HIGH` for `Failed`/`RollingBack`, `LOW` for `Updating`/`Deleting`, else `MEDIUM` | `HyperPod cluster state: {name} -> {status}` | Includes instance-group counts. |
| Node Health Event | `HIGH` if status `Unhealthy`/`Degraded`, else `MEDIUM` | `HyperPod node health: {cluster}/{instance} -> {status}` | Includes `HealthStatusReason`, `RepairAction`, `Recommendation`. |
| Cluster Event | `MEDIUM` | `HyperPod cluster event: {cluster} / {resourceType}` | Includes `Description`, `InstanceGroupName`, `InstanceId`. |

`data.originalEvent` always carries the unmodified EventBridge event so the agent can dig in.

### Noise filter

HyperPod emits many `Info`-level "Cluster Event" entries during routine
operations (a single scale-up can produce 20+: update-started notices, access-entry
updates, per-node provisioning notices, etc.). The Lambda drops events whose
`detail.EventDetails.EventLevel` matches `WEBHOOK_DROP_EVENT_LEVELS`
(default: `Info`). Without this filter a single scale-up would consume many
investigations against the monthly quota.

`DropEventLevels` (default `Info`) and `ClusterFilter` (default: only this

> stack's `HyperPodClusterName` — empty = forward all clusters) are CloudFormation

Reviewer: ### "empty = forward all clusters" contradicts the template wiring (nit)

**Observation**: The template maps an empty `ClusterFilter` to `HyperPodClusterName` (the env var is never empty), so empty ≠ forward-all — README's parameter table has it right. As far as I can tell there is *no* supported forward-all configuration, despite the template parameter description also saying "set explicitly to widen or to forward all".
**Suggestion**:
```suggestion
stack's `HyperPodClusterName`) are CloudFormation
```
…and if forward-all is intended to be reachable, wire a sentinel (e.g. `*` disables filtering in `_cluster_filter()`) and document it in one place.

| `SystemNamespaces` | `kube-system,aws-hyperpod,amazon-cloudwatch` | CrashLoop verdicts on these are tagged `system-workload`. Downstream email routing can page the platform team differently from customer-workload verdicts. |
| everything else | — | Tagged `customer-workload`. |

Two lists rather than a run-time DSL keeps the skill's job to English-language
reasoning over already-structured input — classification is plain set-membership
lookups on already-resolved lists, with the structure pushed into the Lambda.

### Anti-spam: audit titles are stable + issue-descriptive

A naive periodic audit could re-notify the same evidence every cycle. The
solution keeps audit investigation titles issue-descriptive and timestamp-free
(e.g. `HyperPod <cluster>: CrashLoopBackOff (<ns>/<pod>)`), so a recurring issue
produces an identical title and the platform triage stage (plus the
`hyperpod-incident-triage` skill) LINKs or SKIPs the repeat instead of emailing
every cycle. A genuinely new signature (a new Xid type, or the same Xid spreading
to a new instance group) produces a different title and re-notifies. On top of

> that, the RCA skill emits `Suppress — periodic audit, evidence is stale` when the

Reviewer: ### `Suppress — periodic audit, evidence is stale` — verdict name doesn't exist in the RCA skill (nit)

**Observation**: The RCA skill defines `Suppress — periodic audit, no open incidents` (rules table + examples); "evidence is stale" appears nowhere in the skill.
**Suggestion**:
```suggestion
that, the RCA skill emits `Suppress — periodic audit, no open incidents` when the
```

   don't cross-notify) → Lambda → `ses:SendEmail` to the configured recipients. By
   default sends on `Investigation Completed` only (one email per lifecycle);
   `Created` / `Updated` / `Linked` events are ignored to avoid mid-flight spam.
   Override with `EMAIL_DETAIL_TYPES`.
   - **Body composition reads the full journal.** The Lambda calls
     `aidevops:GetBacklogTask` + `aidevops:ListJournalRecords` and renders
     symptoms, findings, and investigation_gaps directly. It does not rely on
     parsing a single verdict-title string, so it degrades gracefully when the RCA
     skill drifts.
   - **Dedup is S3-marker-based, keyed by `execution_id`.** Before every send the
     Lambda does a `HeadObject` against
     `s3://hpda-markers-<slug>-<account>-<region>/emailed/<execution_id>`. If the
     marker exists, the event is dropped. The marker is written *after*
     `ses:SendEmail` returns a MessageId. This defends against the platform
     re-emitting `Investigation Completed` for the same execution. Marker objects
     auto-expire (30 days by default; `MarkerExpirationDays` CFN parameter).
   - **Skip filters (in order):** detail-type allowlist → S3 marker →

>      Suppress-verdict detection → no-actionable-content (zero findings AND no

Reviewer: ### "Zero findings AND no verdict symptom" (doc) vs `findings`-only gate (code) — a findings-less Monitor/Escalate verdict is silently dropped

**Observation**: IMPLEMENTATION.md documents the no-actionable-content filter as "zero findings AND no verdict symptom", but `email_notifier._has_actionable_content` checks `bool(journal["findings"])` only. An investigation whose journal carries a `Triage verdict: Monitor/Escalate` symptom but no `finding` records is dropped — in tension with "Monitor verdicts are not silent" earlier in the same document. (Nit while here: this ordered filter list also omits the heartbeat check that sits between the S3-marker and Suppress steps in the code.)
**Impact**: Whether this bites depends on whether the RCA skill can complete a non-Suppress verdict with zero findings — if it can, the promised email never sends; if it can't, the doc overstates the gate.
**Suggestion**: Either make the code match the documented AND-condition (`journal["findings"] or _verdict_symptom(journal)` with a non-Suppress verdict), or require ≥1 finding for every non-Suppress verdict in the RCA skill's Phase 4 and fix this doc line.
